# Bootcamp-Project
Repository for the Bug-Tracker website &amp; backend server. Made during the QA bootcamp, as a project to demonstrate my current knowledge.

## Technologies Used
The backend of this project is made using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. The backend is also coded in Javascript, and connects the frontend to a MongoDB database. This database is manipulated by the backend thanks to Node.js and Mongoose. Using a MongoDB database to store the data used by the site means that data is not lost when the database is closed and reopened.

## Running The Project
All important project files are located within the directory `Bootcamp-Project/src/main/javascript/`.

First, setup a Mongo database to store the bug reports generated by the website. The website will attempt to send data to a table called 'bugs', present on port 3000; so ensure that such a table exists using an application such as MongoDB Compass.

In order to use the website, first start the backend server. Open a command line in the directory above, then type `node server.js`. Provided you have Node.js installed on your machine, the server should now start and display a message that it connected to the database.

Now open a browser, and ensure that CORS is disabled. Then open `Bootcamp-Project/src/main/javascript/Frontend/` and open any of the HTML files here to reach that page of the website. I recommend you start with the Search.html page, but you can open any. Provided everything is set up correctly, you should now be able to use the site.

## Using The Site
### Search
From this page you can:
* See a list of all the bug reports from the database.
* Filter this list by ID, Tag, Priority or Status.
* Go to the 'DisplayOne' page for any bug in the list.

### Add A Bug
From this page you can:
* Add a new bug report to the database. Not all details can be set via this page, since a brand new bug will never have this information set.

### Site Info
From this page you can:
* See some basic information about the site and its purpose.

### Display One
Accessable by selecting a bug from the Search page, from this page you can:
* See all data on a specific bug.
* Alter data on a bug by changing it and pressing 'Save Changes'.
* View the linked image for a bug, displayed on the screen (if it is set and a valid direct image link).

### Display All
This page cannot be reached via any other page, and exists for debugging purposes. On this page you can see all the data for each bug, including its auto generated database id, in a plain text format.

## Bug Report Object Structure
Each bug report contains the following data:
* \_id - Randomly generated IDs used by the database to store and find reports.

* Bug Number - Randomly generated IDs for each bug. These range from 1 to 99999 and are more easily readable than \_id, while still uniquely identifing each report.

* Description - A plaintext description of the bug.

* Status - The current status of the bug; Open, Closed, Being Worked On or Reopened.

* Priority - How important the bug is to get fixed quickly; Low, Medium, High or Critical.

* Tag One / Two / Three - Can be set from a dropdown of options. Setting these allows reports to be searched much more efficiently, by allowing bugs to be filtered by a certain common theme.

* Image - URL link to an image. If a direct link to an image file, the image will be displayed on the Display One page.

* Close Reason - A plaintext description of why the bug was closed (e.g. fixed, unreplicatable, etc).

* Open Reason - A plaintext description of why a previously closed bug has been reopened (e.g. only fixed on one OS, closed by mistake, etc).


